Azure Policies and Remediation MMA (#57)
likamrat/azure_arc: azure_arc_servers_jumpstart/docs/arc_policies_mma.md

# Overview

> The following README will guide you on how to use Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, wether they are on-premise or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 

Reviewer: some minor typos
eg.
wether->whether
on-premise->on-premises
etc

> In this case we will assign a policy to audit if the Azure Arc connected machine has the (Microsoft Monitoring Agent) MMA agent installed, if not, we will use the extensions feature to automatically deploy it to the VM, an enrollment experience that levels to Azure VMs. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as: Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 

Reviewer: slightly awkward wording. Suggested edit:
We will assign a [built-in policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/samples/built-in-policies) to audit if an Azure Arc connected machine has the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) installed. If it does not, the policy will automatically deploy the agent to the VM.

> You can use the Azure Portal, an ARM template or PowerShell script to assign policies to Azure Subscriptions or Resource Groups. In this guide, you will use an ARM template to assign built-in policies. 

Reviewer: and AZ CLI

**Note: This guide assumes you already deployed VMs or servers that are running on-premises or other clouds and you have connected them to Azure Arc.**

**If you haven't, this repository offers you a way to do so in an automated fashion:**
- **[GCP Ubuntu VM](gcp_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [GCP Windows VM](gcp_terraform_windows.md)**
- **[AWS Ubuntu VM](aws_terraform_ubuntu.md)**
- **[VMware Ubuntu VM](vmware_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [VMware Windows Server VM](vmware_terraform_winsrv.md)**
- **[Local Ubuntu VM](local_vagrant_ubuntu.md) / [Local Windows VM](local_vagrant_windows.md)**

# Prerequisites

* Clone this repo.

> * As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc.

Reviewer: consider explicitly describing what is in the screenshots. For example adding "In the screenshots below we can see a GCP server has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.

* Create Azure Service Principal (SP)   

    To connect a VM or bare-metal server to Azure Arc, Azure Service Principal assigned with the "Contributor" role is required. To create it, login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/)).

  ```bash
    az login
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role contributor
    ```
    For example:
    ```az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "http://AzureArcServers" --role contributor```
    Output should look like this:
    ```
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcServers",
    "name": "http://AzureArcServers",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```
    
**Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).

> * You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json) and provide a name and location for your workspace. Then start the deployment with the command:

Reviewer: move instruction to start deployment to after the screenshot and before the bash script

    ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

> 

Reviewer: "Then start the deployment with the command:"

    ```bash
    az deployment group create --resource-group <resource-group-name> --template-file <path-to-template> --parameters <path-to-parametersfile>
    ```

# Azure Policies on Azure Arc connected machines

> * Now that we have all the requirements set. We can assign policies to our Arc connected machines using these commands. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. Then start the deployment with the command: 

Reviewer: minor typos:
Suggested edit:
Now that we have all the requirements set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. Then start the deployment with the command:

    ![](../img/vm_policies/04.png)

> 

Reviewer: move previous "Then start the deployment..." to here right below the screenshot

    ```bash
    az policy assignment create --name 'Enable Azure Monitor for VMs' --scope '/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/resourceGroups/<resource_group>' --policy-set-definition '55f3eceb-5573-4f18-9695-226972c6d74a' -p "<path_to_json>" --assign-identity --location "<region>"
    ```

> * Once you have assigned the initiative, you will see that it will be evaluated (it may take 30 minutes to run the first scan) and show that the server on GCP is not compliant.

Reviewer: We can force Policy to evaluate by calling ARM directly. I have a powershell script that will do this but I am not sure if we want to add it for the purpose of this tutorial. Let's discuss.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/05.png)

* We can now add a remediation task by clicking on the Initiative 'Enable Azure Monitor' and selecting 'Create Remediation Task'.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/06.png)

* Under 'Policy to remediate' choose '[Preview] Deploy Log Analytics Agent to Linux Azure Arc machines' and select 'Remediate'.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/07.png)

> * Once you have assigned remediation task, the policy will be evaluated again and show that the server on GCP is compliant. And that the Microsoft Monitoring Agent extension is installed on the Azure Arc machine. 

Reviewer: minor typo: suggested edit:
Once you have assigned remediation task, the policy will be evaluated again and show that the server on GCP is compliant and that the Microsoft Monitoring Agent extension is installed on the Azure Arc machine.

* Create Azure Service Principal (SP)   

    To connect a VM or bare-metal server to Azure Arc, Azure Service Principal assigned with the "Contributor" role is required. To create it, login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/)).

  ```bash
    az login
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role contributor
    ```
    For example:
    ```az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "http://AzureArcServers" --role contributor```
    Output should look like this:
    ```
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcServers",
    "name": "http://AzureArcServers",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```
    
**Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).

> * You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json), provide a name and location for your workspace
> 
>     ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)
> 
> Then start the deployment with the command:
> 
>     ```bash
>     az deployment group create --resource-group <resource-group-name> --template-file <path-to-template> --parameters <path-to-parametersfile>
>     ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json), provide a name and location for your workspace. To start the deployment, use the below command:

    ```bash
    az deployment group create --resource-group <resource-group-name> --template-file <path-to-template> --parameters <path-to-parametersfile>
    ```

    ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

```

Reviewer 2: You need to be a bit more explicit about the --template-file here. See example:
https://github.com/likamrat/azure_arc/edit/master/azure_arc_k8s_jumpstart/docs/aks_arm_template.md#L66

# Azure Policies on Azure Arc connected machines

> * Now that we have all the requirements set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Now that we have all the prerequisites set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines using these commands. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 
```

    ![](../img/vm_policies/04.png)

> Then start the deployment with the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start the deployment, use the below command:
```

    ```bash
    az policy assignment create --name 'Enable Azure Monitor for VMs' --scope '/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/resourceGroups/<resource_group>' --policy-set-definition '55f3eceb-5573-4f18-9695-226972c6d74a' -p "<path_to_json>" --assign-identity --location "<region>"

>     ```

Reviewer 2: - Can you make the change the command to a multi-line format? Easier to read.
- Would be good to provide an explanation on the "--policy-set-definition" flag

  ![](../img/vm_policies/05.png)

* We can now add a remediation task by clicking on the Initiative 'Enable Azure Monitor' and selecting 'Create Remediation Task'.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/06.png)

* Under 'Policy to remediate' choose '[Preview] Deploy Log Analytics Agent to Linux Azure Arc machines' and select 'Remediate'.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/07.png)

* Once you have assigned remediation task, the policy will be evaluated again and show that the server on GCP is compliant and that the Microsoft Monitoring Agent extension is installed on the Azure Arc machine.

  ![](../img/vm_policies/08.png)

  ![](../img/vm_policies/09.png)

# Clean up environment

Complete the following steps to clean up your environment.

* Remove the virtual machines from each environment by following the teardown instructions from each guide.

    - *[GCP Ubuntu VM](gcp_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [GCP Windows VM](gcp_terraform_windows.md)*
    - *[AWS Ubuntu VM](aws_terraform_ubuntu.md)*
    - *[VMware Ubuntu VM](vmware_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [VMware Windows Server VM](vmware_terraform_winsrv.md)*
    - *[Local Ubuntu VM](local_vagrant_ubuntu.md) / [Local Windows VM](local_vagrant_windows.md)*

> * Remove the Azure Policy assignment by executing the following script in AZ CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Remove the Azure Policy assignment by executing the following command in AZ CLI (This can also be done in Azure Cloud Shell).
```

   ```bash
    az policy assignment delete --name 'Enable Azure Monitor for VMs' --resource-group <resource_group>
    ```

> * Remove the Log Analytics workspace by executing the following script in AZ CLI. Provide the workspace name you used when creating the Log Analytics Workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Remove the Log Analytics workspace by executing the following command in AZ CLI. Provide the workspace name you used when creating the Log Analytics Workspace.
```

# Overview

> The following README will guide you on how to use Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following README will guide you on how to use Azure Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 
```

    Output should look like this:
    ```
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcServers",
    "name": "http://AzureArcServers",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```
    
**Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).

* You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json), provide a name and location for your workspace

    ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the [deployment folder](../policies/arm) and run the below command:

  ```bash
    az deployment group create --resource-group <Name of the Azure Resource Group> \
    --template-file <The *log_analytics-template.json* template file location> \
    --parameters <The *log_analytics-template.parameters.json* template file location>
  ```

# Azure Policies on Azure Arc connected machines

> * Now that we have all the requirements set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Now that we have all the prerequisites set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 
```
